topic of this video was really put in my
mind by brief conversation I had with
another university professor here in
here into home China she had a family
emergency
it seemed that a younger relative of
hers had suddenly died or was dying and
she had to go to the hospital so she was
asking me at the last minute to teach
teach some classes for her and I
immediately you know without question
said yeah okay great let's you know tell
me the time somewhere to go and I was
preparing to go and do it now she ended
up canceling with apologies she got an
update from the hospital turned out this
relative of hers although apparently
badly injured is not gonna die so she's
gonna go and visit the person the next
few days instead so good news of course
and I wrote back to her in Chinese
saying in effect you know all teachers
are our brothers I just said in Chinese
something to the effect that there's a
there's a common kinship between all
teachers and it was a nice thing to say
at the time of course it was quite
appropriate because I was saying look if
you need my help I'm happy to help you
again but of course it's also sad for me
to just pause and reflect on that
staring into my mobile phone because
it's not true it's not true in Western
culture and it's not true in my my
experience here in Asian culture there's
very little kinship this very little
cooperation between intellectuals of any
kind between people who work in
education of any kind and it's it's
really sad because the truth is that any
given field of studies any given mandate
any given mission any given movement
like a political movement like the vegan
movement what have you you you really
rely on cooperation of exactly that kind
you rely on a lot of generosity of
spirit and without it the field can't
progress I can say specifically in
education education is unlike other
sectors in that you absolutely have to
show generosity
toward people who don't deserve it you
can't just show generosity towards the
students that show the most potential or
towards your colleagues who show the
most potential you have to take the time
and make the effort to reach out to and
encourage all kinds of people who don't
have any potential or who seem not to
have any potential you have to make the
effort to help people advance in the
field of studies again and again only to
later be disappointed only to find out
that they're going nowhere that they
have no potential at all that they have
none of the talents necessary or what
have you I think it's a discipline I
think that's really part of the role of
the educator is to do that again and
again to be disappointed again and again
and not to let that disappointment cloud
your judgment not to become bitter not
to become shut down not to closed door
against a whole future generation of
scholars in your field because of the
disappointments you've had in the past
whether or not whether those
disappointments are a dozen or two dozen
or two hundred no matter how many times
you've been disappointed by the the
people in the field you've been you've
been trying to help out there was one
woman I guess she's still alive but
she's not very very elderly Ella pardon
me very very elderly skull our coldest
Jaclyn philia set and you know when I
met her it was really just too late she
had so many times had people approached
her who want who said ostensibly that
they wanted to develop expertise in her
field she really worked specifically on
hand written poly manuscripts so we say
palm leaf manuscripts poly is the most
ancient language of Buddhist
philosophical tradition these actual
manuscripts are normally just in the
last few hundred years but they're part
of that literary tradition and you know
so when I was talking to her I wasn't
the first person to say that I was the
last but the truth was even from the
first conversation to have with her in
terms of where had been living what I've
been doing and what I could show her on
paper of my own work it was very clear I
didn't just have potential it wasn't
merely a theoretical Talent what I had
was actual I really had what it took to
be a to be a significant person in that
field now that field I mean in her
generation she's one of she's one of
five people or something maybe even less
you know I'm really for her generation
she might be the only one the only
specialist and that field the only
legitimate specialist at least the only
one who speaks a European language you
know because sure there will be a few
experts in Myanmar who don't speak any
English are there a few experts in sri
lanka maybe just to mention briefly so I
was I was scholar of Pali of tera vaada
Buddhism and tera vaada Buddhism has the
misfortune of not being supported by any
wealthy Western countries and not by any
wealthy countries within Asia so the
situation for scholarship of Japanese
Buddhism is very very different from
what the situation has been in Sri Lanka
or in Myanmar in the last few decades
because those have been countries that
haven't just been struggling with
poverty they've also been struggling
with civil war with all that haven't
been said when I met philias at she was
not too old to help me she wasn't it was
perfect timing and I actually moved to
Cambodia specifically so that I could
learn from her so I could work with her
so I could sit down in an archives in a
manuscript or ium and do the hard work
by hand and I of studying this kinds of
manuscripts with her and never happened
it wasn't too late it would have been a
perfect time for the passing of the
torch
she had just retired and she was
allegedly at the time she said she was
gonna retire to Cambodia from France to
Cambodia and she could have passed on
the accumulated wisdom of her decades of
research and just hands-on experience
working with that type of Buddhist
manuscript hmm and I really was the
right guy to receive it my it's not
worth describing the background I had at
that point but it was too late in
another sense because she had already
had her heart broken too many times now
fili is at
had some other strategic disadvantages
for example she was crazy but she had
been through some situations I can
sympathize with where exist for example
one point she signed up with some
official government of Thailand funded
program that provided her with a few
students but these students who were
paid to be there by the taxpayers of
talent they didn't really want to be
there it's not what they were about and
she explains she described that whole
experience to me and then afterwards she
said these students all sent her
invitations to their weddings and things
like that they tried to stay in touch in
a polite way none of these people had
any interest or any aspiration and ever
becoming scholars of Buddhism much less
did they have an interest in doing the
exceptionally hard work of working on
handwritten manuscripts and you know
stone carvings texts that are etched
into stone carved into stone what
everyone is a chiseled into stone I'm
lacking for verbs at the moment that
kind of you know archive based research
is an even more rare specialization
within the broader field so you know she
had been disappointed with one wave of
students after another who had been
recruited through crummy government
programs or in some cases through
library studies programs people who were
getting a diploma in library science
this kind of thing yeah well they ain't
me I really was the right person to
become her student and I was deprived of
the opportunity because she had her
heart broken too many times before I
ever got there and philia is that the
last thing I ever got was she sent a
sweater to my my newborn baby daughter
thanks thanks for the sweater Kelly is
that but what I needed from you really
was not a [ __ ] hand knitted sweater
for my daughter my daughter had plenty
of sweaters what I really needed for you
to do was sit down at a table with me
and show that you have a sincere concern
about the future of that area of studies
I needed you to sit down with me and
help me take
nothing and nothing and come up with
something I need you to advise me on how
I could have a future in that area of
studies and thus that area studies would
have really benefited from having one
more person like me in it because when
you get into these obscure fields Polly
Cree a jib way and right now I'm gonna
talk about the honk die each and every
intellectual in that field is crucial
makes a big positive difference or makes
a big negative difference you know and
Polly is only unusual it's only unlike
the others that I'm mentioning in this
video in that in powell you get a lot of
fraud you get a lot of people pretending
to be experts who aren't but for the
most part all those fields it's a long
hard road of developing meaningful
expertise and putting your mind and
heart into trying to sling positive we
expertise you've got but this small
number of people whether they are
university professors or independent
scholars whatever they're their road
they walk in life it's crucial that they
show that kind of generosity toward
people who don't deserve it because they
may not be able to discern the very few
who do deserve it the very few who can
take that advice even if it's just a few
emails bouncing over who can take that
advice and really make something happen
right and if they don't if they don't
that feel the studies will collapse and
you know I just want to say I had that
experience I was involved with pally for
so many years I I took the time I
reached out to and replied to a lot of
other aspiring students of pally and I
gave them exactly the advice they needed
whether it was about university programs
or just about the books which books they
need to work with which is very hard and
very hard question answer for pally just
mentioned where they should go and how
they should proceed I provided a lot of
advice and a lot of time counseling
younger scholars in the field when I was
getting up towards having 10 years of
experience myself and if you don't then
the field will collapse the field of
study will fail apart from the
devastating impacts it may have on the
individual scholar so I went through a
surreal situation at University of
Victoria
where there was one professor there whom
I talked to at length and again I'm
reminded of some remarks from a rapper
female rapper who said that she after a
certain point in her life she got older
as a woman she was no longer day
interested in dating man who had
potential
she was only interested men who could
prove that that potential
she's only understand something actual
not something potential she want to say
it that way with all these professors I
was able to show I don't have potential
I have something actual my potential is
proven it's demonstrated there was a
professor at University of Victoria and
he did buddhism put his studies and he
did Sanskrit in particular Sanskrit
language very similar to poly and I had
written to him emails over many years
over several years trying to get
something positive going I said written
to professors of Buddhism from coast to
coast in Canada from the east coast to
the west coast including tiny tiny
universities like University of
Lethbridge ridiculous to talk to
everybody and I couldn't find an
opportunity anywhere to work my way
towards a master's degree yeah which is
ultimately one of the most important
reasons why I deceased to be a scholar
of Buddhism it was devastating for me
it's devastating for me and I'm not
boasting to say ultimately it is really
pretty devastating for the field it's a
small field and it is lacking for
brilliance money if you I made a huge
impact in that field during my years
just as an outsider and as a student and
there's no doubt in my mind what kind of
impact that could have had positively if
any of these people lifted a finger and
make it possible for me to stay in the
field but they didn't anyway this guy he
saw my peer-reviewed articles he saw
other essays other evidence of my work
on languages and again I didn't just do
languages languages history politics
anthropology fieldwork visiting the
Buddhist temples living there in that
situation really you know really deep
meaningful engagement with the subject
matter I could demonstrate going back
over many years and this guy he wasn't
insulting to me he wasn't he wasn't an
ask to me or anything but he just didn't
care he just did
lift a finger to make anything positive
happen and among the evidence that he
recognized that was a talent he asked me
to peer-review an article for a journal
he was formally involved in so I
actually peer-reviewed an article form
he said hey look I'm part of this
journal can you peer review this this is
he said this is more in my area of
expertise than it is in his which is
true and I did I did a good peer review
for him I did a you know detailed
discussion of what was wrong with an
article okay but then he could not be
bothered to answer email from me when
I'm offering at my really advanced level
I'm in my late 30s
I'm way more advanced than any 18 year
old student in a BA program I'm way more
advanced than a 21 year old student
applying to go into master's program and
I'm writing to him saying look this is
who I am this is my background I'm
looking for any ma options long term and
I'm willing to do a second BA which is
extraordinary very very few people go
back to get second pay and that wasn't
just willing in the abstract I actually
did that twice I enrolled in a new BA
twice in Canada and that reflects just
have terrible the Canadian education
system is and I'm I'm getting that
second ba now I'm getting in Asian
Studies not in Buddhist studies not
anything to do with Buddhism that whole
part of my career is now over and you
know I finally met this guy in in unique
and memorable circumstances I want to
see him and he was trying to teach a
course on Sanskrit I signed up for this
course on the computer with no intention
of actually taking the course I thought
I would just show up sit in the back of
the classroom listen to the guy talk for
one hour I thought there'd be 40 other
students so that would be a normal
University classroom and then I'd walk
out I thought I just go and see what
this class books is supposed to be
Sanskrit for Buddhism was like Buddhist
you know Buddhist textual Sanskrit a
show-up
sit there alone I end up running back
and forth to the department office they
say this must be the wrong room nobody's
there not one other student not one
professor professor aventure shows up 15
minutes late I'm literally the only
student in the room he never reached out
to me and he never reached out to
anybody and yes that's devastating for
me
decisions he made had a devastating
impact on me personally professionally
educationally I I needed one professor
somewhere in Canada to just be willing
to talk to me through email for the rest
of my career to be possible and not even
one would do it and it could have been
him yeah was devastating we but guess
what it's devastating for him also
because the reality of the thing is he
wanted to teach Sanskrit and he didn't
make any effort to cultivate talent to
attract new talent to his program and so
he didn't have any Talent
alright Sanskrit is not like dentistry
people want to make money everywhere so
if you put up a sign saying you're gonna
give people diplomas in dentistry some
people are gonna show up right studying
Sanskrit studying Pali studying Buddhism
even Asians that even politics of Asia
because a lot of what I do is political
always has been nobody's making any
money out of that you've got to reach
out and cultivate talent you know for
the good your own career for the good of
that individual's career but for the
good of the field as a whole for the
future of the field is crucial right and
he never did that so he had an empty
classroom and instead of me sitting
there and listening to him do a lecture
about what the course gonna be it's what
I was expecting the first day of this
course instead he and I sat down had a
face-to-face and I had to say to him I
think was unexpected hey I'm that guy I
was writing you for years because I used
to be a real scholar of Buddhism I used
to live in Laos and Cambodia and Sri
Lanka I did all this research until that
you know I'm that guy who wrote those
articles I'm that guy who peer you you
were you asked me to peer review an
article for you but when I was writing
to you you you couldn't even be bothered
to to reply when I was writing to you
when I was offering to become your
student you couldn't lift a finger so my
career is over because nobody opened the
door for me every single door was
slammed in my face so my career at the
end and you were one small but crucial
part of that story so we had that
conversation I don't know I don't know
what he got
[Laughter]
and you know I don't get the sense that
he was intimidated by me some professors
are some professors are not used to
having applicants they're only used to
having supplicants they're only used to
having 18 year olds who ask questions
and who can't answer them some
professors are deeply unsettled by
having a student who's at a more
confident advanced level but that's not
my impression this guy my impression
this guy is simply indolence he just
didn't care he just doesn't see himself
as having any ambition to make something
happen for himself for his students or
for the field and that indolence in the
end it destroys the field of study it
destroys the lives of individual would
be scholars would be students
what-have-you and it destroys the whole
field and really that's what happened
with pally with tera vaada Buddhist
studies on a on a pretty big scale
worldwide and last several years so
making this video now as I mentioned I
just had this interesting conversation
with another professor where I
immediately offered to help her out when
she had a relative in the hospital I
also just posted this job and I've been
offering to help some complete stranger
get this job in the university here just
out of the goodness of my heart just as
a bits v''e and i know how rare that is
to people don't seem to do much to help
other people these days we said it's a
big difference in Western culture and
Chinese culture the culture of guanxi
and so on and so forth and you know I
had another conversation I don't think I
have to read it aloud here about the
possibility of becoming a scholar of the
Hong died now look I don't want to bore
you but talking about other languages of
study before when I was saying this
other professor this professor of
Sanskrit and the oppressor of Buddhism
but Sanskrit Sanskrit via Buddhism and
Buddhism via Sanskrit he should have
recognized me as a talent because I
already did all this work on poly well
I'm talking to another professor lately
and for him the fact that I worked on
poly is important but it's also
important that I worked on
northern Lao I lived in Laos for so many
years speaking the language and
specifically the northern dialects
because I was talking to one of the only
white men in the world who has a
background in the home dye in the
indigenous language sure sorry sorry if
it sounds racist said one of the only
white men I mean he's someone who speaks
English as his first language he has a
PhD he's a professor he's in a position
to really determine the future that
whole field of studies there of course
there may be other people with expertise
who you know have none of those things
going for them we can't communicate with
you in English who don't have an
institutional position who aren't who
don't have a PhD and so on if you meet a
kindly little old man in a village who
could help you with this area of
scholars scholarship but he's maybe a
farmer anthropologists often have to
work very hard to make an educational
arrangement out of that kind of scenario
but a very very small number of people
will actually have salaried positions as
professors and will have PhDs and will
speak English in a field like this
whenever you get an anything like this
Kriya jib way mohawk poly to Hong died I
mean I've looked at so many fields where
it's you know the whole fate of the
field rests with a small number of
hard-working intellectuals and otherwise
maybe there are a few Christian
missionaries you know on that and that's
a wrap and ultimately the future of
whether or not these languages survive
the future of these indigenous peoples
and their cultures the future of the
literature and philosophy itself so much
hangs on a small number of intellectuals
having the generosity and the discipline
to reach out to and help one another for
the future that Fela study anyway I
wrote to this guy saying and he's as you
can fear who he is he's the only I think
in this generation he is literally the
only english-speaking man who studied
dehang die this this language in this
area I said to him I am literally one of
only three white men living in the Hong
long term no I really wasn't expecting
much of an effort on your part but I was
expecting you to make more of an effort
than you have the indolence of people
like yourself
has long-term consequences for both
scholarship in the abstract and for the
lives of scholars in particular suppose
I should say this guy's met me in person
this is not about talking to some 18
year old student who's whose potential
is highly hypothetical okay
he's met me I've actually handed him
copies of my publications on paper he's
seen me eye-to-eye in person he's spoken
to me for several hours he's heard me
tell anecdotes about my research as well
as actually seeing my research he's seen
evidence of the kind of self discipline
and focus I can have in doing language
research he should know me enough to
trust me
- a real extent and again in my case
we're not just talking about potential
we're talking about something actual
we're talking and I've got the
demonstrated capacity to make the kind
of discipline self-sacrifice needed to
contribute to a feeling of death so he
should know and I'd written to him now
for several months saying hey I'm moving
to your area of study and you know I
have the background in terms of language
history politics so much scholarship
have done I really have the background
to take advantage of living in de Hong
to really work on this language and make
a contribution your field of study but
what it takes is somebody with a PhD to
at least advise me to at least answer my
emails to open up a door for me and show
me the path ahead at least to at least
answer my questions about which books I
need to get which dictionaries need to
get and I have answered those questions
for so many other people when I was
helping out other people in in Pali and
I would have done it in Korea in a Jib
way if I'd been able to stay in that
field and I'm still doing it in a sense
in in trying to play that positive role
for for poly for terrified studies um so
I say to him because I am disappointed
that he just hasn't shown any interest
for several months the indolence of
people like yourself has long-term
consequences for both scholarship in the
abstract and for the lives of scholars
in particular when I was studying poly I
worked hard as hell to help aspiring
students I reach out to supported helped
anyone with a shred of potential for the
good of the future of this
field of study and only a small minority
of those people really had a shot at
contributing I can say the same but a
number of other rarely studied languages
that was involved with even Korean a Jib
way etc over the years all of them I was
involved with much more briefly than I
would have chosen to be but the choice
was made for me by circumstances beyond
my control obviously I've been facing
the very real decision as to whether or
not I should be learning to Hong died in
the past several months you are one of
extremely few people who could have at
least discussed that decision with me
and who could have seriously influenced
the short-term and long-term outcomes of
this scenario he's the only expert in
this field who speaks English he said
he's a crucial figure for the future of
this this field my prior work in both
Pali and lotion are huge advantages for
learning died the fact that I now live
and work on a university campus where
die is taught as a language formerly in
the classroom is a huge advantage and
yes I now have good enough availability
in Chinese my ability to speak Chinese
is good enough after an investment of a
lot of time money and effort in that
language I was in a position to really
take on this direction long term and you
couldn't be bothered to talk to me by
email let alone by telephone etc I think
you are to be blunt the only white man I
possibly could have talked to about this
specialized field and in all your life
really do you think you'll ever talk to
another english-speaking student who
could have in this scenario made the
leap to contributing to your field to
becoming a scholar in your field just
pause I could say the same to that
professor of Sanskrit how many years are
you gonna wait there at University of
Victoria with an empty classroom
literally an empty class we had to
cancel that class he had to apologize to
the supervisor of the department and
cancel the class because he didn't have
even one student that's a failure
that's a black mark on his record and as
a failure he's totally responsible for
it's totally his fault he's not just
destroying my future he's destroying his
own future in a very interesting sense
he's you know their impacts on all sides
here when you fail to have
and vision to cultivate talent for the
future of the field to reach out to and
possibly support you know aspiring
scholars aspiring researchers however
you want to put it okay it would not
have cost you a dime just to care and
just to provide advice to me when I
crucially needed that advice and I have
done that for so many students of pally
so I know exactly what it entails and in
the message so look guys most of you
watch this channel because you know
about my engagement with vegan activism
there really is a sense in which this
background I have in this type of
scholarly endeavor is connected to how I
approach vegan activism from day one on
this channel the way I was reaching out
to other channels positively
collaboratively cooperatively I said
before in education you have to reach
out to people positively generously
supportively
trying to give them guidance and advice
and the materials and tools they need to
succeed even when they don't have
potential even when they squander their
potential even when you've been
disappointed a dozen times
helping one student after another and
each one just squanders the opportunity
to be given that you you meet the next
student with an open heart and an open
mind and the detachment and discipline
to see them for what they are to see
them as a possible talent you can
recruit or you can cultivate in the same
way when we're talking about this
political movement when we're talking
about the future of vegan activism I
tell you guys again and again meet
people with an open heart and an open
mind get your heart broken you'll be
disappointed you're gonna try to
cooperate with people you can try
collaborate people you're going to be
disappointed again and again keep having
your heart broken until there's nothing
left to break and have the discipline to
go back with an open heart and an open
mind and be disappointed again because
if you don't you're destroying the
future of the movement you're destroying
the future to feel this studies and in a
subtle way you may not realize it but
you are actually under my
your own career you're destroying your
own potential by failing to promote the
potential of others both in politics and
in research there's not much that one
man can do alone even if it's just a
group of five even if it's just a group
of 10 dictionaries are never written by
one author
you know you at least need to build up a
critical mass of like-minded
intellectuals who can cooperate 5 10 15
whatever it is and the way you're gonna
do that
it's not gonna be by meeting someone
else who's already your equal it's not
to be by meeting someone who's already
made colleague in contemporary of yours
you have to build the future of your own
field of study you have to build the
future of this movement you have to
start with people who are so to speak
raw materials who have nothing but
ambition and show them the way for them
to educate themselves train themselves
to get the experience necessary for them
to be your colleagues be your
contemporaries for them to work for the
future of the field of studies for the
future of the movement on their own with
you and collaboration however the case
may be